yo
hey
yo hey
good morning good afternoon good evening
no matter where you're coming from hope
you all are doing well
welcome back everybody
i'm going to tell you
can you hear me
all right
now
this one almost didn't happen
this one didn't almost happen
everything that could have went wrong
went wrong so
i had to move my desk set up so i moved
everything
uh if you saw the old picture of my desk
you know that that's no easy feat uh all
the monitors hundreds of cables
everything's plugged in i did a few test
recordings
uh yesterday and was kind of like making
sure everything was working for class
today and then i go to like do my normal
pre-stream routine and get everything
set up
one camera's not working the the mics
not working you can't hear desktop sound
uh everything just like broke and then
spotify when it works that's why there
was no music in the beginning uh but you
know what
sometimes in life
they're gonna be some boats
and some logs and you have to pick those
suckers up and just carry them so we're
doing it we're gonna make it work this
is our last class of css before we hit
javascript we're going to come back
don't worry
we're going to come back we're going to
come back we're going to do a little bit
more css a little bit more html but for
now
this is the last one before javascript
on thursday baby and i can't wait
can't wait all right so let's talk about
uh let's see everybody get in here i
know we started a little late so let's
get some folks in here let's do what we
normally do we got some questions
questions first folks uh let me send the
actual go live message now that we're
actually live
cool
but the question of the day from the go
live message is
would you rather only be able to whisper
or
only be able to shout
the rest of your life
whisper
or shout the rest of your life what
would you want throw it in chat for me
please
okay this one this one is overwhelmingly
whisper
like it's not it's not even close
there's there's one person saying shout
in all caps which i guess is very
fitting uh but yeah it seems like the
the whisper is the move you know what i
thought about this at first at first i
was gonna be the shout person but then i
was like you know what i can just carry
like a little pocket megaphone and maybe
i can put that pocket megaphone up and
whisper and then i also thought maybe
you know what maybe if i'm forced to
whisper i'll get more smooth you know
a little bit more smooth
i can i can do all the the the fancy
whispering right but i think i'm gonna
go whisper on this one
all right folks as people get in here we
know we start a little bit a few minutes
in because of the technical difficulties
uh but any questions any questions let's
get some questions going before we jump
into the mix today
hey
lehigh getting worse the world ain't
ready a
we would be covering unit test in jess
not for a very long time we'll we'll
have like a little bit of a class on it
but it's just not something that i think
is gonna hold you back from getting a
job so it's not something we'll go super
deep in and each company that you join
will probably do it slightly differently
with slightly different tools and so
we'll cover a little bit of jess a
little bit of mocha just because i think
it's fun and then um yeah just a bit
fries or nachos definitely nachos
is it normal to feel like we're
struggling
yes
absolutely
okay to feel like you're struggling uh
you've had what
this is this is this is our this we have
we've been into it a month right we've
been into it a month
you've only had what five or six classes
on css not even four classes five
classes on css
uh
it's totally okay to be struggling to be
picking up some of those boats and those
logs and it feeling a little heavy
you're gonna get through it
welcome to the trough of sorrow we
talked about it last thursday you're in
the trough of sorrow welcome uh you're
about to crash and hit the bottom when
we get to javascript on thursday but
this is a boot camp right that
terminology is there for a reason you're
you're not here to become perfect you're
here to become fighting fit
right and so as we move through the html
as we move through the css you got to
ask yourself am i learning am i picking
up tools am i able to start and get
thrown into projects am i asking a lot
of questions am i doing my anki am i
doing my pomodoro am i doing all these
things that are setting myself up to be
successful and if the answer is yes
you're doing all the things to set
yourself up to be successful you're
using your anki every day you're asking
questions on discord every day and
you're
doing the work that's assigned to you
then yes you're in a totally
fine spot to be in things will come
with time
okay
we're not here to be perfect i saw a
couple people
on discord over the weekend kind of
asking a very similar question right
asking a very similar question like hey
as i'm working through the layouts
things just kind of break more the more
time i put into it the more things break
great
welcome that's part of the process right
making sure you're getting in there
you're throwing yourself into it you're
breaking stuff your your the things will
take a little bit time from the sink in
and i don't care if you're the best
person that's ever coded in the world
learning html and css in just a month is
not really feasible
right i don't care if you're the best
coder that's ever existed one month with
html and css that's like part time after
work maybe for some of you it's just
you're not going to walk away feeling
like yes i got it
like i'm ready to move on no
this class will always be us going down
the roller coaster like beyonce right
our hair is flowing we're having fun
we're enjoying it but we're never gonna
really feel like i've mastered this
topic like i i i am
i am ready to move on it's just it's
just not going to come
we're here to to push and give you a
base skill set and a lot of different
things and then once you get on the job
you'll have to learn different tools or
different things and you'll keep pushing
and that first year in the job is where
you learn the most so
with the
css and html
if you understand the concepts right if
you understand the concepts the things
we're getting at when we talk about
layout when we talk about box one when
we talk about all the basics that we
covered that's a good spot to be in once
we get through javascript we start
building real stuff
when you have real things to build
you're forced to learn and to push and
to get better so
even though this is our last time with
html and css before javascript it is not
our last time with html and css you will
have dozens of projects that force you
to use html and css that force you to
get comfortable with it that force you
to keep pushing right but at no point in
time will you get that warm fuzzy
feeling being like yes no we're here for
a boot camp we're here to get fighting
fit we're here to push we're here to
break things we're here to be baddies
and write bad code
superhero superman
thank you for the five gifts it subs i
appreciate you
right
how long is too long to spend on a
layout
if you feel like you're getting stuck
it's time to move to a different layout
and so my recommendation is that if
you're ever stuck on one piece for more
than 20 minutes it's a wrap you're cut
move on to the next one
right
and so i think it's really
thank you for the uh gifted subs it's a
little delayed that's cool um
you will
right
yeah you will
be seeing html and css over and over and
over and over and over again right these
layouts are not the only layouts you'll
ever do you're gonna have so many other
layouts to do over and over and over
again
if i'm spending more than 20 minutes on
anything in coding i stop maybe i defuse
and walk away maybe i stop and ask for
help but i move on one of the best
things i've ever done
whoever did when it came to me learning
layout
was to do a layout
learn what i what i learned in that
moment of the layout but then i got
stuck right when i was first learning i
would get stuck
and i would just start breaking
everything like
there's nothing more i could do that
wouldn't just break everything so in
those moments i would stop i would walk
away i would take a diffusive moment i
would come back and i'd delete it all
and i start fresh
and i would remember the things that i
learned from that first round right that
i learned from that fresh round right
and then redo the whole thing and
sometimes i would redo a layout two
three four times
and maybe on the fifth one
it was
i had learned enough to be able to put
it back together i didn't have other
stuff that was holding me back right
and so for me that's why i gave you a
lot of extra time on these layouts
right i gave you i gave you more time in
these layouts because i know that you're
in a place where
it's hard it's difficult you're pushing
you're in a place where you might have
to delete something two three times come
back to it multiple times move on to a
different layout and come back
that's okay
that's 100 okay
all right and uh what did i tell y'all
did you need it's the first thing i said
is if you wanted to be a developer right
if you want to get through the trough of
sorrow what's the first thing we have to
keep in mind
what's the first thing we got to keep in
mind
exactly managing frustration do you
understand now why that is the first
thing
out of all the things i could tell you
to to be a better software engineer do
you feel
why that's the first thing now
do you understand
exactly
and so all good things in good time
right
you still got a little bit of time left
for these layouts
on thursday if you're not done them
it's all right keep pushing yourself
we're gonna get into javascript once we
get through javascript we'll come back
but i really just want to throw that out
there that it's okay to feel stuck it's
okay to feel like you're not 100 there
but you can't let that stop you have to
figure out a way to manage your
frustration to get back on discord ask
more
better
targeted directed questions no more can
you look at my code no what's the thing
you're struggling with ask that right
make sure you're doing your space
repetition make sure you're doing all
these things that we know that will help
you up to be successful and keep pushing
match your frustration be consistent
every day and don't forget to take care
of yourself
alrighty
today uh today we are talking about
our media queries just purse work for
all the layouts uh so certain layouts
required media queries if you look at
the slides it literally said underneath
the slide to use media queries or not
you can go back look at the the slides
right and see if it says media query or
not
yeah
cool
we come back to go deeper into media
queries um there's really not much more
to cover with media queries we're going
to touch on them again tonight and then
that's kind of it there's really nothing
too wild other than like setting your
viewport with and then writing some more
css that's kind of all there is to it
we're going to see that tonight we're
going to play with them tonight and then
after that you really don't need too
much more it's just buckling down and
doing it right
cool
all right tonight we're going to just
remind folks to network uh we're going
to talk a little bit about what the
expectation is for this week and next
week in terms of networking
then we're going to review just some
quickly some css basics and then we're
going to do a slightly more challenging
box model exercise than we normally do
we are then going to look at some
responsive basics uh just reviewing some
of the the core tenets of
responsive css we're going to spend some
more time practicing with m's and rems
that seemed like a big sticking point
for a lot of folks and so i wanted to
make sure that today is kind of a day
for last review to look at some fun
stuff
uh we're gonna spend a little bit more
time with m rems we're gonna spend a
little bit more time with media queries
because it seems some folks are getting
tripped up there and then we're gonna
build three layouts using flexbox i'm
not gonna go super deep into flexbox i
think there are a lot of great resources
that i've shared some more that i put in
the following materials today
i'm gonna show you three of the layouts
we've already done with flexbox we're
gonna talk through the decisions we're
gonna see what flexbox can do and then
we move on to javascript once we get
done javascript we'll come back and
we'll build more feature-rich layouts
that include effects flexbox and maybe a
little hint of grid
cool
alrighty
so let's go ahead and just break through
the the important stuff to start tonight
and then we're going to get into some of
this review and then some of this
flexbox
cool checking in you haven't checked in
already please do so you can do
exclamation point check-in here in chat
uh you can also always just
click the link that's in the follow
along materials channel or
in the when we go live message as well
for folks that are new here we're doing
a 30 week software engineering bootcamp
if you want all the information to
follow along you can do exclamation
point 100 devs here in chat and it'll
tell you everything you know about
joining our bootcamp and and uh
getting along with us
alrighty folks
thank you for checking in i appreciate
it
big thing happened over the weekend
folks got added to
our study communities now
study communities are just a smaller
group for you to study with that's it
there's nothing other than that it's
just a smaller slightly
protected area where it's just a certain
smaller group of people
our hope is that you use these groups to
network a little bit to work on projects
together a little bit but really just
have a smaller space to to to put around
in and to ask questions and have some
fun
they they don't replace any of our main
channels they don't replace any of the
help channels just a slightly smaller
place for you to hang out now almost all
of the groups have been added we still
have a few of the location ones left
but a lot of the affinity groups have
been added and pretty much all of the
location groups have been added we just
have a few more that we'll get to this
week
now
if you are in a group
you owe an immense amount of gratitude
and thanks to blah our fearless mod uh
to make these groups
right to make these groups we had to do
everything manually
right so we there was no way to just
assign a large batch of individuals
roles we tried everything uh every bot
everything that we could have done uh
there are things that you could have
done like we could have created a bot
where you clicked an emoji but folks
have trouble clicking emoji sometimes so
it really came down to manually adding
so if you have a role
for your group
know that you got that role manually
blah went in
found your name
added the role to your name and then
that's what put you in that group
uh and they did it twice
not only for all of the study
communities that are kind of affinity or
based but also for all of the
location-based ones we're talking
thousands and thousands of people
manually getting roles and then they did
it again for the location groups so if
you ever see blah around discord please
give them a thank you uh that is a
metric crap ton of very hard work where
you're just sitting mindlessly adding
adding adding adding and so um
huge shout out to them huge thank you to
them uh because without them that would
not have happened we we still be talking
about this four weeks from now
so thank you blah
now for some folks they missed out on
this form
they missed the second form or they
didn't fill it out or maybe you're part
of ketchup crew and you're just hearing
about this now if that's the case you
can fill out this missed out form
it is also in the follow along materials
channel should you need it there
we don't have any plans
to enable folks like switch groups yet
and we're going to add folks that missed
out as we have time but it's not
something that's going to happen quick
uh so just because of the manual nature
of it and needing a little bit of break
in between doing this so
maybe down the line will enable folks to
switch uh and if you did miss out you
want to get at it we'll we'll do it as
we have time
now
study communities are just that study
communities uh if you're not in one
that's okay
if you don't like the one you're in
it's just a smaller group for you to
hang out with to write some code
together and take it for what it is
right
all right
what's the biggest one
uh the biggest one was focused and
committed
so focused and committed was so big we
had to split it up into alpha and omega
so there's focused and committed alpha
and focused and committed omega because
there are so many people in those ones
so a large group of folks that are
focused and committed you're in your own
channel
and so we're going to ask you to live up
to the channel that you're in if you're
in the friendly and encouraging one
guess what you should be acting friendly
and encouraging
we will be adding soon two things uh one
we're asking alumni to kind of like
adopt a study community just to have
some some words of wisdom in these
groups as well and we're also gonna be
coming up with guardians like folks that
are in the communities that are just
there to help moderate a little bit more
since there's so many new communities so
much more moderation the mod team's
gonna be stretched a little thin
so yep
so those two things are coming and we'll
add some other fun stuff over the coming
weeks cool
submitting work nothing due today all
right nothing due today uh please keep
putting work into your layouts those
layouts are due thursday
cool
for the homework uh remember uh on
thursday we kind of walk through more of
the homework we walk through what the
media queries which one have media
queries we added some more more to the
to the pile here and so one thing you're
going to notice is that
when i assign homework it's not always
going to be perfectly spelled out in the
follow on materials channel i'm
expecting that you're coming to class
that you're paying attention when i sign
work you're doing it eventually you want
this to kind of mimic being on a team
your boss or team lead is not going to
spell every single detail for you it's
something that you have to be actively
engaging paying attention making sure
that you're taking note of the things
that are due and the tickets that are
being assigned to you so
everything's not always perfectly spayed
out make sure if you're stuck you don't
understand you ask qualifying questions
we have the homework help channel you
can always kind of get clarification on
if you need it
alrighty
networking
does everyone have a sound delay
no
some people are saying yes most people
are saying no go ahead and give it a
refresh
yeah go ahead and give your browser a
on computer yes on phone no
yeah
all right
yeah i would say give your browser a
refresh
we might have a slight delay though
today uh oh the way the computer
computer held up so we'll see
all righty networking
the expectation is this week is that you
network with one individual
already in tech
okay
one individual already in tech
the push is to have a coffee chat with
one individual
right
with one individual in person no these
do not have to be in person these can be
remote right
right it can be remote right can be
remote
and so the idea is to network with one
individual
right one individual that's already in
tech they could be an engineer they
could be somebody in sales as long as
they're in tech
one person now that means you're gonna
have to do something you have to do the
things we talked about during our first
run through networking we're talking
about meetups conferences twitter right
the things that we talked about in our
past class on networking you're gonna
have to do one of those to find
individuals that are already in tech to
network with just one
if you want to push
right
hey blah thank you if you want to push
right you want to push
then throw a coffee chat on that as well
and then of course coffee chats don't
have to be in person right now because
of the thing going around
[Music]
make sure that you can do that virtually
but a coffee just like that slightly
longer
chat with someone that's already in tech
cool
so first week just one
then you're gonna speed up next week
it's gonna be two
a week later it's gonna be three right
and then we'll hold at three
neck word individuals already in tech
and two coffee chats is where we'll hold
down so this week one
next week two
following week three
please make sure
all right what if we're already in tech
doesn't matter if you already have a
hundred people in your network in tech
that's great at a hundred more we're
here to play a numbers game right cool
remember when you're networking you're
meeting these folks you're keeping it
casual you're trying to turn strangers
into friends you're not going for the
jugular you're not going straight for
the job right a lot of folks right
a lot of folks
are
worried about hey leon i just networked
with somebody and and they have a job
available and should i be interviewing
no
not yet
if you're if you're following this boot
camp and you're in you're you're you're
not at a stage where you've you have a
language that you're comfortable with
and you can you have projects no most
folks are following this boot camp if
somebody says hey i would love for your
interviews say great i'm not ready to
interview i'm not interviewing at the
moment not looking for a new opportunity
at the moment but in two to three months
i would love to reach back out so keep
it casual don't worry if they offer
interviews or things like that hey i'm
not looking for new opportunities right
now but in two to three months i will be
add them to your sheet
right add them to your sheet don't
forget that these individuals right
don't forget that these individuals
right
exist
you want to add them to your sheet as
you network these individuals because in
three four months from now when you're
actually in the thick of interviewing
you're not gonna remember that person
you're not gonna remember the
conversation that you had and so the
sheet is what keeps you honest it's what
keeps you uh
remembering the things that are
important and it's the thing that you'll
eventually share with me
as part of your homework so that i can
see that you're doing your networking
and that you're staying on top of it
can they be in tech now yes can they be
retired no because you want people that
can eventually go from friends to
referral um so i mean if they're like
super if they're like retired like
like five five days ago that's fine but
the idea would be that you want people
are actively in tech that could actually
connect you with folks that eventually
will be hiring but we don't start there
we start returning strangers into
friends
and they be students probably not
because the goal is to for them to be a
referral right so
if you're in college don't count other
students as or if you're in a in our
boot camp you're talking to other boot
campers right like
no that doesn't count folks already in
tech that could eventually become a
referral
cs teachers count no
folks that are like in tech jobs right
that could eventually refer you know
um is there a way to talk to mods i've
discovered no uh it's just leonel.com
discord any other links will will expire
oh
alrighty you're using the sheet
coding challenges i know we said they
start this week but they won't start
until we actually start javascript so
there won't be any kind of daily coding
challenges until thursday friday
but after after thursday's class we got
daily coding challenges happening
remember that you have to get a paid
client by march 29th we haven't had our
freelancing class yet so i'm kind of
giving you the date now just that you
can start talking to friends family
start letting folks know hey i'm a
software engineer i'm looking for
clients right that's it start putting it
out into the world and we'll have a
class on how to freelance soon and then
your goal is to lock down that client
the contract by march 29th so the work
doesn't have to be done it's just that
the contract is signed by march 29th
all right
we had a lot of folks to get jobs we're
we're way past the 80 jobs mark now
uh and we had two folks that posted very
recently
on discord and so i just wanted to throw
them in there if you're not in that
celebrations channel i highly recommend
you check it out every once in a while
it's just amazing to see the everyone's
wins and the cool things that are coming
their way
arielle speedwagon posted
they just started their software
engineering job on february 1st so huge
shout out to them
i really love some of the things they
had to say in their message i always
link the messages in the slides so you
can like click their name and it'll take
you directly to their their message on
discord
but i really love this the thing they
shared i wish i could express how
unready i felt
even after more than one official offer
i feel like a lot of people are in that
space where
they just don't feel ready yet right or
they just don't feel like they they
understand css enough or they don't
understand html enough that's okay
you're going to feel unready you're
going to feel those hints of imposter
syndrome that's an okay feeling to have
you have to manage that feeling manage
that frustration and keep pushing
right
um
i wish i could tell you how many times i
got myself got along the way with
imposter syndrome with networking
anxiety networking got me this job so
they're saying they had networking
anxiety but networking was the thing
that got them the job
slipping on my anki
using it now on the job i wish i could
share the depths of the level i felt god
because i want to share this view from
the other side
sending all my very best thoughts wishes
and currents to all the folks who feel
farthest away from the light we go get
all right
i i need everyone to feel that in their
in their soul right now right they want
to feel that in their soul right now
you're gonna get got you're gonna feel
unready you're gonna slip on certain
things but that's okay
we go get
all right keep pushing
and you'll get there
i also love that they say help others
and ask for help
that's that's the way you get through
this folks you help others when you can
and you ask for help when you need it
that's the most beautiful thing about
this community is the most beautiful
thing about those help channels it's how
you get through
all right
another one that came through that i
loved uh
this is from jeff jeffen12 with the link
uh to the discord message as well
really excited to share that i accepted
an offer from amazon i'll be starting as
a front-end engineer with amazon
robotics in march
uh they give a huge shout out to dab
who's part of our stream team uh we talk
more about stream team in in in the near
future uh and then leon they mentioned
things that we that we cover in this
class as being the strategies for
success prep and car are two interview
methodologies that we drill in super
hard throughout 100 devs they're super
grateful for everyone here
and
thank you for letting me learn ask
questions give support and advice when
i'm able so i wanted to said a huge
congratulations to them as well
the really cool thing about this is
one of the largest
study communities or one of the larger
study communities we have is an
educators study community so folks that
are teachers and educators and the cool
thing about them is that they actually
shared this in the thread that was on
the celebrations channel that for the
past 10 years they've been an educator
special ed teacher
they they weren't really kind of coming
from an engineering background they were
a teacher and they start picking up
coding as a hobby they joined 100 devs
they kept up their interviewing game and
ultimately locked down an offer at
amazon so i really love this i love the
things that they shared and
if you ever need just a little boost
you're feeling down the trophy star is
getting you go to the celebrations
channel checked out those pinned
messages uh that'll be you if you can
match your frustration be consistent and
take care of yourself
what does prep and car mean
prep is an acronym for what we do during
a technical interview
um it's just it's just the thing that we
do to make sure that we're we're solving
a coding challenge correctly so as we
move into our coding challenges we'll
teach prep and then car is a simplified
version of the star interview method so
when it comes to behavioral interviews
it's kind of like three things we keep
in mind for every single question the
beautiful thing about
the midpoint of this program is that we
just grind interviewing that's it we
grind coding challenges we grind
behavioral questions we have uh a bank
of 300 plus questions that we'll get to
that you have to know the answers to
inside and out and we're just lean mean
interviewing machines by the end and so
we have a lot of acronyms things that we
keep in our brain so that we can get
through these interviews the right way
you can study for interviews this is the
thing that i think a lot of folks don't
realize that you can study your way into
a job you can network your way into a
job hey justin chat hey there you go
cool
alrighty
i want to share those two things i think
they're they're encouraging and then i
love this gift so just because
all right
let's jump into it
we're gonna do some review we're gonna
look at some flexbox and we're going to
call it a night we might end just a tad
early tad early just so you have some
more time to work on your layouts
all right golden rule separation of
concerns content goes in our html style
goes in our css behavior goes in our
javascript y
i love the yeah right and early
organization
exactly
progressive enhancement another really
important idea to keep in mind the the
core should be our content we should
have a little bit of presentation on top
of that and a very thin amount of
client-side scripting which is our
javascript so as we transition into
javascript on thursday super pumped for
that we got to remember that it should
be a small portion of what we're doing
because we want to keep our sites light
and accessible to all that may not even
have a high speed broadband connection
there's a reason why enderly is a bingo
word exactly
all right css
the css go in line does it go in the
headers go in a separate file
separate file nice remember you might
have some inline if you're writing html
emails you might have some in the head
if you're at amazon like jeff is at
amazon like three or four other 100 devs
alumni or amazon we need to have like an
amazon channel on on our discord
uh in the head if you're at amazon you
might have critical pass css we put a
little bit of css in the head so that
the above the fold can render quickly
right or a separate file of course we
put in a separate file
to adhere to separation of concerns
beautiful
all right chat
let me open up demo pro here
what is this
it's a rule
about this
it's a property nice it's a property and
we'll do one more how about
that the whole thing i just circled
declaration block exactly remember rules
are broken down into selectors and
declaration blocks declaration blocks
are broken up into declarations
declarations are broken up into
properties and values beautiful remember
when we were just first learning this
stuff remember how
overwhelming that felt and now you are
just like
select selector declaration block
declaration properties values come on
now let's go
let's go
see you so long ago it was like two
weeks ago
it was like two weeks ago
all right remember css is right from top
to bottom stuff that comes below can be
overwritten by stuff that comes above
due to the what
due to the cascade nice
nice
alrighty
we had selecting by relationships when
you see the carrot we're talking about
what type of parent-child relationship
we see the carrot we're talking about a
very specific parent-child relationship
direct exactly we're talking about the
paragraph that is directly within a
section so we have a paragraph it's
directly within the section there's no
other containing elements in between the
section and the paragraph beautiful
parent child without the carrot doesn't
matter how deep the paragraph is it can
be inside an article can be inside of
any other character inside of any other
element doesn't matter as long as there
is a section with a p inside that p will
become the color red cool
now
we had and i changed this up a little
bit
when we have the plus sign
we're talking about something very
specific we're talking about the
immediate sibling somebody some people
call that the adjacent sibling
right
right the adjacent sibling so here the
only thing that be read would be hello
youtube all right and it'd be hello
youtube because it has an immediately
adjacent paragraph above it right
cool
now there's one other thing that we
haven't really talked about yet but some
folks were asking
we have a general sibling selector it is
the till day
the till day is typically above like
your caps lock or your tab key
and that till day is a general sibling
so it doesn't have to be immediately
adjacent right it doesn't have to be the
the uh the next one right so in this
case if we did
p
till day p we'd be selecting a paragraph
right we have a span in the way it
doesn't matter we also be selecting this
paragraph hello tick tock all right so
there are a few other wonderful things
within css
right
but it still kind of follows all the
same patterns here so adjacent means
immediately after and then general
doesn't matter if there's something that
comes in between you're still gonna be
able to grab the paragraph that's down
below
ids and classes
uh ids are unique identifiers and it was
a target one thing and only one thing
when you give something an id it cannot
get another id that id name cannot be
reused on any other element
classes their way of targeting multiple
elements at the same time each element
can have as many classes as really as
you want and you can reuse those classes
across elements so you can target them
all at the same
time
alrighty folks
what is the specificity
of this rule
throw it in chat for me specificity of
this rule
[Laughter]
[Music]
y'all got cat
see i've been setting you up
class after class
class after class i've given you this
exact
question
but i changed it up just ever so
slightly
nobody bothered to look
what happened
oh
[Laughter]
so we have inline style
what does inline style count for
what does inline style count for it
throw a one on there throw one on there
throw one on the board
right you got at least a thousand points
for that inline style
now if you want to continue to count
after the inline style
uh we'd have one id
we'd have one class and we'd have one
tag
now
the reason i show you this is just to
know
as you eventually leave
the bubble of 100 devs and you're on a
team don't ever do this
don't ever do this unless you're writing
html emails because nobody would look
none of you all looked i didn't even
look
so be careful don't use inline style
it's gonna add way too much to the
cascade
you won't ever see it your co-workers
won't see it and hope nobody you work
with does it you're like you're like i'm
a bad yeah i write bad code i'll use
inline style if i want you can't tell me
nothing leon
all right if you wanna be a bad to be a
baddie that's up to you
it was like you circled the css it's not
fair you said the rule not the not the
actual
rendering in the dom
true that's true
all right how about this one
how many points specificity are we
talking about
everybody everybody's looking at the
everybody's
every line they're looking
all right where is it at where's it at
all right there's no there's no tricks
in here in the inline style
uh we do have a bang important so we
know that that's that's a that's a one
for us
we have one id
we have one two three classes
all right and we have one tag so we're
at a thousand one hundred and thirty one
nice
box model
alrighty and we talked about the box
model
i want to go ahead and do a box model
practice it's a little bit more tricky
right a little bit more tricky than
we've done in the past so
if you need the materials for today uh
you can download them in the following
materials channel on discord and we're
gonna go ahead and open up
the box model practice we're going to
uh why is this class moving so fast
because we've covered all this stuff
before this this is all review for us
if you're new here we have
nine ten other classes that you can go
back to and and watch this as we move
through so we always start off with a
little bit of space repetition the first
hour so is review and seeing things from
a different angle but uh we slow down as
we get to new stuff
all righty
yep
estimation point 100 devs exactly if you
want information so let's go ahead and
open up this box model practice
index.html there's also a css file and
if you open up the css file there are
four things to do
uh i'm gonna put
i'm gonna put eight minutes on the clock
for this one to see if folks can get it
done i will put eight minutes on the
clock
we'll go over it together and then we'll
take our break let's put eight minutes
on the clock
we'll go over it together then we'll
take our break
alrighty
done no get out of here
what do you need to do you need to
complete what's in the css file
go for it you got this dig deep
let me see if spotify will come back on
i don't know why it wasn't working
hmm
we might not have music tonight
it's crunk dead it might be tonight
might be tonight
why
um
can you move the clock
there you go
case you need to see it
uh
ads are turned on um because we're
partnered it's not something that like i
control like i don't run ads um just
when your partnered ads get get ran if
you're sub do you have a gifted sub you
don't see them but yeah
uh you should really only see them when
you join though like you shouldn't be
like getting stream caught up
yeah sorry there's the music i gotta
figure out i don't know why it's not uh
not coming on
maybe we could do
let's see
try in the browser
about four minutes 45 45 seconds left
i'm enjoying the quiet
alrighty
quiet makes it a lot easier to think
this is fun like solving puzzle i hope
so yeah
i have kids the quiet is great
yeah i might need to try the app in the
browser but i might do that while we're
taking the break
oh we got some duns coming in nice nice
uh we'll get into freelancing in like
maybe like a week or two but our
freelancing class is already on
youtube so if you have somebody that's
like really jumping in the bit
definitely just go and watch that class
maybe a little early
all right maybe i should have done uh
the eight minutes here supposed to come
in with the dunzos
can two of us freelance together i mean
you can but for the requirements of the
class no
the reason being is that when you go
into an interview you want to be super
sh you want to be super clear that it's
your work and your work alone so people
get in trouble when they do like combine
100 hours projects or combined
freelancing you want an interviewer to
have no sniffs that you did not work on
something by yourself
i'm signing a contract with a production
studio to redesign their website hey
it's amazing congrats
power rangers hufflepuff how do we do
that you got to find them and then maybe
use a color picker to find the actual
color
or sometimes i guess you could probably
even google some of them
oh more guns coming in
mikey we'll cover that in class i'll
give you contracts and all the stuff
that you need
first time i finish the first time is up
hey congrats silva that's awesome
you can turn on wrapping kidding there's
a way to do it
can't believe i never knew about apple's
color picker it's pretty cool that it's
built in yeah
those are windows you can definitely get
one from the store i think a new linux
on certain ones has it built in too
i don't understand this exercise at all
no worries we're going to go over it
together and if you're new here we've
definitely done very similar things a
couple times beforehand this one's a
little little odder a little bit a
little bit harder a little bit more
difficult
than the ones we've done in the past
scalar a congrats
hey good luck riv
first interview it's gonna go well you
got this
all right folks we got about 39 seconds
left
uh i didn't see who it was but
wrapping is a feature in vs code
if you open up your settings and just
type wrap it'll pop up and you can
toggle it
alrighty folks
10 seconds
sorry
with no music it's even weird for me
because i'm used to like listening to
the music while y'all are working
i don't know why spotify is giving me
trouble
today is a comedy of errors alrighty
folks come on back come on back
let's go over this together and then
we'll take our break so go over this one
together and then we'll stop
for five minutes alrighty come on back
please give the h1 some padding so let's
go ahead and do that h1 some padding on
two sides
and zero on other so the cool thing
about uh padding is that you can do
like padding left padding right padding
top bottom right you can do that
and then you could also
use the number system so if you just put
one value like if we just did like five
pixels that would put five all the way
around we can also repeat so if we did
like um 10 pixels zero what that's going
to do is put 10 on the top
zero on the right
10 on the bottom
and zero on the left right so we can
take advantage of this to do two sides
and zero on the others awesome
margin on the sides with no padding so
we could do the same thing with margin
except we'll we'll flip it so we'll do
let's do 0 10 pixels so now
padding will be on the top and bottom
and margin will be on the left and the
right
cool remember it's clockwise top right
bottom left
alrighty
typically when you have zero you don't
put the pixel value you just leave it as
zero yeah you did it backwards sorry
this camera is the different way top
right bottom left
that's so weird
because it's flipped
alrighty
uh thin purple borders on sides without
margin
all right
so
we need to make sure so we have we don't
have margin on top and bottom
right so what did you all do to get get
the border on top and bottom
yeah
just do border top border bottom yeah so
it's going to do that
order top
we'll do thin purple border so let's
just do two pixels
solid purple
cool and we'll do the same thing for
border bottom
uh two pixels
solid purple
because right now if we look on line
four there's no margin on zero
uh so on the top or bottom so we put the
border on top and bottom nice
uh gold background so let's do
background
and it has to be the gold must be the
exact color from the hufflepuff crest
so for me
i'm on a mac so i can do
digital color meter and when i open a
digital color meter i can just find a
picture of the hufflepuff crest and grab
the color i see a bunch of them in chat
so if you're on mac digital color midi
is built-in
um on windows there is one that people
are saying like in power tools that
power toys there's one but you can you
can just download one pixie i think some
people are mentioning but i've never
used it so there are ones you could
download for windows say thanks for good
new linux uh so for me i'm going to go
i think i already found an image of the
hufflepuff crest
so i'm just going to open up my digital
color meter
and
i'm going to go right here i mean
there's different shades right so it's
going to go where it's like pretty muted
all right
214 71 171 52.
171 was it 52 i don't remember
or 51.
yeah 52. all right
beautiful
uh and so that's the rgb values and so
uh shift command copy oh you can copy it
from there actually i'd never do that
that's pretty cool
um
so we're gonna go ahead and do rgb a
and i'm gonna put these values in
and we'll put one because we want it to
be fully transparent and let's let's
open this up and see what we got
cool
so we got the
how do we reduce the width of the border
on border bottom border top
reduce the width oh it has to do with
the size of the element so like why is
it going to the full full width of the
page um because right now technically
this h1 extends for the whole width of
the page so you need some sort of width
on this or some way of truncating it not
being a full element yeah
so you kind of got into something called
block you could have got something into
oh look at it it's all snowy
[Laughter]
santa comes late
and the funny thing is i have like a
like a white dotted shirt on stay frosty
there you go
leon got snapped like i'm dumb dano
snapping away
all right so it looks good to me we got
the borders on top and bottom we got the
gold all right it looks good let's let's
take a look at these other ones then
we'll take our break
all right please give the h2
significant padding on the left and
right all right so we'll go ahead and do
padding
remember top
top right
bottom
left there we go so we want it on the
left and right so i'm just going to do 0
and then essentially i'll do like 30
pixels so i'll put the left and right
for us
and then we want to border on the left
and right um but the red must be also
the red from the mighty morph and power
ages logo where do i think of this stuff
all right so we're going to do the same
thing here but we're going to do border
right
and we're going to do let's make it more
visible 5 pixels solid red
um but i'm just putting red as the
placeholder don't freak out it's all
right
i'm going to do border left
and we're gonna do um
we'll do five pixels again
solid red and then we gotta go find the
red
from the mighty morphin's power rangers
uh and it's a gradient right the logo
yeah exactly the logo is a gradient so
give me some some room here
all right here's the power rangers logo
digital color meter
and so i said i can do command
copy
let's see if that works
i'm going to copy this real quick and
then let's let's bring up the digital
color meter again
all right there we go
oh hold on
let's see
it'll work
nope
oh command shift c all right thank you
all right command shift c
beautiful
nice all right cool learn something new
today
rgba
or the a's for that alpha channel like
how transparent is it
uh i'm just gonna put one because i
don't want to be transparent
and then i'll copy this
and it looks hey how's it going thanks
for swinging by again
over stream went well
welcome raiders
how'd your stream go was it fun
what are we all working on
i saw you doing the the like the uh
model challenge the other day i gotta
learn how to do that i gotta i gotta pay
more attention to your stream
uh you were doing like a tree the other
day i was like i just wanna i want that
skill i want to be able to like just
like think of a tree and then be able to
like bring it to life that was so cool
what are you all doing today
it was good did an art challenge cool
some character work okay dope
the challenges are pretty cool i gotta i
gotta up my skills and swing by
thanks for stopping by uh we're in the
middle of doing some some css so
uh we are running a 30 week software
engineering bootcamp we've spent the
last month doing html and css this is
our last like actual css class and then
we're moving into javascript on on
thursday so
welcome welcome hey and different thank
you for giving them a sub i appreciate
that
yeah they are incredible it's one of my
favorite streams on twitch by far
absolutely
thanks for swinging by again
all right so we got our padding
on the left and the
right we got our border on the left and
the right
it has to have
the red coloring from the mighty morphin
power rangers which we got
and then
has to have an orange background
all right orange background
and then
the roboto font so we need font family
uh roboto
cool i'm going to put a default here of
sans serif
this is a fallback of course and we
don't actually have the font right now
right let's check
do we have it in our html file nope we
don't have any fonts linked so we have
to go and get that font where can we go
to get the font chat
google fonts cool
let's do that
uh we'll go ahead and do
fonts.google.com
we have source stands pro enabled here
let's go ahead and do the robot though
and
let's just select the normal like 400
boom there we go
and
should give us the link over here boom
we got the link
awesome
copy it put it in our head
we put it before our css sheet so our
css can use it
and i think we're good i think we should
be able to have the padding the border
the background and the font let's go
ahead and just open this to make sure
what a good refresh
all right it's looking good i know the
i'm going to actually make blood up a
little bit so we can see that the the
awful hideous red from the gradient of
the power rangers logo
can we import it into css you can do
imports yeah
all right
we got two more and then we'll take our
lovely break
please give the section a thick magenta
border
on the left
100 pixels of padding on the top and
bottom 200 pixel margin on every side
without padding our border these got
tricky
all right so we're going to go ahead and
do
section
and order left
and then
i said thick right
yes let's go ahead and do
20 pixels
solid
magenta
and then 100 pixels of padding on the
top and bottom so we'll just use our
shortcut that we just saw 100 pixels
zero so it'll be on the top and bottom
nothing on left or right
and margin on every side without padding
or border
so
there's border on the top there's
nothing on the right there's padding on
the bottom so the only thing to worry
about is margin on the right
right so we could do
margin right
and that would be good enough we could
put our padding there we could also do
the shortcut right we know that it's
top right
bottom
left right and so we could go ahead and
do
zero
200 pixels zero zero
right we could do that we could live our
life that way if we wanted to we're
baddies we write bad code although
that's not bad i think it's just
shortcut right so we do that
looks good to me
i think we got everything let's do this
last one
all right make the spans
have thin dodger blue borders so let's
go ahead and do border
uh two pixels solid
dodger blue
cool
y'all didn't know that oh i did mention
that in class i think before
uh there is a dodger blue built in
fun fact
uh the dodger blue
is different
than like the current dodgers color
because the dodgers blue was introduced
into the specification in like the 80s
like late 80s there's like they're like
when they first figured out like hex
values for it it was like in the 80s
like before like we were even really
talking about css or html right we were
talking like hex values for for this
stuff like back in the 80s um and so i
think when they eventually brought it
into the specification they kept like
that old hex value from the 80s and so
yeah it's a different technically
different color than it is like now
i think it's pretty cool
now
do that color thing again the color
picker you mean
i just i'm just opening the color picker
that's built into mac you'd have to use
the one that's with your system or
download one if you're on like windows
or new linux
all right so dodge or blue
padding on the bottom and right
so bottom and right so bottom and right
would be
zero on the top
let's do 10 pixels
on the right
10 pixels on the bottom
and zero on the left
top right bottom left yes i do this
every time
i'm uh
you're i'm not live i'm still doing this
every time
same thanks i'm not alone
all right
and then a light red background
light ah there's no light red what did
you use for light red
light red is pink
[Music]
[Laughter]
salmon
because in my brain i'm like wait a
minute it's not built in whatever shall
i do like
light red does not exist oh no i'm like
i'm gonna have to figure out an rgb
value i'm gonna have to figure out
hexadecimal value
josh is like use pink
i don't even think about it even when i
wrote this i didn't think about fake i
was thinking accidental value
[Laughter]
this is fun
let's see
beautiful
that looks hideous but that's kind of
our style the nuns are proud exactly all
right
uh it's time to take a break
five minutes on the clock
you're new around here we like to be
healthy
all right like to be healthy we like to
take our breaks if you're able to please
get up move around stretch hydrate
and we'll be back in five
all right i'm going to start the timer i
might actually switch to the be right
back screen just while i do something
extra here but we'll be back in five
[Music]
foreign
yo
hey different thank you for the gift
that subs i appreciate you
thank you
dog is there a dog i see no dog
there's a dog what
all right folks come on back come on
back
alrighty
so i guess i didn't play the playlist i
guess it just played that one song yeah
he had one song and then spotify clicked
out
alrighty
let's keep it moving folks
we'll eventually have the the moshi and
simba cam set back up
mashi was kind of sitting there staring
at me so
bring the dog back we don't want we
don't want stream we don't want to learn
we want dogs
alrighty
let's talk about some responsiveness
let's uh play around with some m's and
rems let's play around with some media
queries a lot of folks still had some
questions i wanted to make sure we had
like two
more bits of practice with those things
before we moved on to javascript of
course
when do we start whispering
all right
cool
responsiveness let's get into it
back in the day
folks didn't care about screen size all
right they didn't care about screen size
they'll make something one size and it
didn't matter how it looked on any other
size screen because they didn't really
have to worry about other screens and
then something
happened
what changed
the world uh when it came to us having
to care about different size screens
yes
steve jobs worked onto that stage and
introduced the iphone and the world was
never the same of course there were
mobile phones before then but things
really start to get moving once that
happened mobile phones exploded we
needed our
our content to not only look good on
uh a a desktop monitor but now also
laptops and then phones and then tablets
and so we couldn't just have a
fixed-wist site it needed to be
responsive
now the core underpinning of a site
being responsive is three things
fluidity elasticity and content
decisions fluidity kind of comes cheaper
it comes a little bit easier if you're
using things like percentages on your
width or different layout or different
box model s type things like flexbox
you probably get that fluidity built in
so as long as you're using something
like flex or using something like
percentages you have that fluidity
meaning that as your size gets bigger or
smaller it kind of is responding it's
kind of looking okay and that fluidity
helps us
in between our break points right in
between the things that we care about
also we have this idea of elasticity
right
elasticity
is this idea that we want specifically
at the beginning are fonts to be size
and things like rems and m's so all m's
and rems are our responsive units of
measure
and we use them a lot when we come to
things like text
right
right and so here you can see this idea
that instead of putting a font size on
my paragraph i always forget that i
still have this in here
i always forget that it's in here
dominoes cut me a check
uh
we have the the the font size right in
one m and we have a font size and one
rem
people get hung up on this but all in m
is doing
all in m is doing is looking for its
closest
parents
font size so if we're at this paragraph
right
we're looking for the closest parent
with a font size the closest parent to
this paragraph is a section and we can
see that this section has a font size of
20 pixels so the paragraph at 1m is
really what put the answer in chat for
me please not dominoes
it's actually 20 pixels exactly one m in
this instance is equal to 20 pixels
because the paragraph got its base from
its parent section and that's how m's
work m's will keep going up the ancestor
chain until it finds
a parent with a font size and that's
what it bases itself on
now
this proposed this this this leads to a
very specific problem though uh and it's
a problem when we one that can happen
when you work with others
or maybe even yourself if you're lucky
uh what can happen that would hurt us
when it comes to m's
yup rossi it does have to be apparent
yeah
if somebody goes ahead
and adds a different parent maybe they
put like uh this paragraph inside of an
article
right
if a [__] comes in and changes
something exactly they put this
paragraph and say like an article well
guess what
if that article
also has a font size it'll never right
it'll never go
right it'll never go
to the section it'll grab its font size
from the article
right
now
sometimes this is inherited because the
browsers have their own default size but
let's let's stay off of that for a
second right the idea here being that
this paragraph will always look for the
immediate child and so somebody else in
our team comes along sorry immediate
parent if somebody else comes along and
changes that parent with a different
font size well now our m's are different
values
right and so
the beautiful thing here is that we have
a solution to this we don't have to
worry about that anymore because we have
rems and rems always look at what no
matter what they don't look at their
parent they look at what
yeah they look at the html element they
look at the root element which is the
html html element and that's it
you don't have to worry about parents
they have to worry about anything um
somebody in their their
their uh this was brandon with their
twitch mess their they they subscribed
and said yeah buddy got my sass to
compile congrats glad you got your ass
to compile that's hilarious thank you
thank you for the sub
uh
when we're doing rems
right when we're doing rems it always
looks at the html element right so we
don't worry about somebody else coming
in putting a different parent a
different font size it looks at the root
html
cool
let's do some practice with this uh this
can be a tricky
be a tricky thing to work through so
let's get some practice in and in our
starter code from today remember if you
always need the starter code if you're
new here you can join our discord
leonard dot com discord exclamation
point discord in chat in our discord we
have a follow along materials channel
once you agree to our rules you'll see
the channel and you can download the zip
for each class so here we have the
rem practice folder so index.html
style.css
if you look at the css
underneath the additional styles there
are some things i want you to do and you
should do them in order please
all right i'm gonna put
i'm gonna put eight minutes on the clock
for this one again
eight minutes on the clock
give this the good old 100 devs try
and then we'll go over it together
morning flow
this is in the
rem practice the css scroll down to
additional styles
i like no music you can always mute the
screen
meet the
channel until the timer goes off
that's why i keep the timer off a lot of
folks do just like mute the stream while
they're doing the work and then turn it
back on uh once they see the timer go to
zero i will never start until the timer
goes to zero
this is uh stream beats uh by harris
heller it's all free royalty music
all low well this one's all lo-fi
we love the voice
have you played the new pokemon yet no
but i think tomorrow i'm going to do it
on stream
i really have to test i don't know why
certain stuff's not working after i move
my desk
uh and so i'll probably do like office
hours where i'll just answer questions
while i test everything
and then i'll probably just play it on
stream just to test the microphones and
the new lighting and all that stuff
because this was this was a struggle to
get it live for tonight and i don't want
that for uh thursday so i'll probably go
live like tonight just messing around
with stuff again and then i'll go live
again probably tomorrow just to dial
everything in
turn it on and off again i tried it
didn't work
uh do i use emmet i mean just what's
built in but not really
uh the go live channel will actually
always snitch on me so as soon as i go
live it'll always go live so you'll see
it in there but i probably won't like at
everyone because i just want to test
stuff you want to come hang out sure
come hang out but i just need to test
everything
what is code i'm very confused no
worries we're gonna go over it together
uh this is in the rem practice in the
css file at the bottom
you just follow along the instructions
in the additional style
probably do some of the layouts on
sunday yeah
now i didn't bet on the super bowl
what should i do with my raspberry pi
um
that's a good question
i like putting um
key wix on it and you have a fully
offline backups of like wikipedia khan
academy a bunch of really cool stuff
high hold block servers that's a good
one too block ads that's a good one too
key wix is the backup
like kiwi kiwis
i actually have a whole article like a
whole blog post on my blog about setting
up um
a
computer lab
using raspberry pi's
pretty cool it's a lot of fun
so you're talking about actual pie
what did you think about snoop dogg [__]
walking i loved it
dear thing
some folks coming in done that's cool we
got three minutes
22 seconds left
i need some help on that one no way
we're gonna go over it together
more folks coming in done nice
oh this looks good and done i love it
how do you feel about sports game result
i didn't even watch it
[Laughter]
i'm glad
sportsball team won
they watched the halftime show though
that was that was a throwback and a half
all right folks
my grandma hated it
what's your rarest pokemon card
i don't have any like super rare cards i
mean i got some rare ones but not like
super rare uh mainly just like older
rare cards from decks like that were
competitive decks so there was like a
competitive deck
um from the years that i was playing i
had that deck and i had all the cards in
it so
nothing like super expensive couple
hundred dollar cards but yeah i do have
um
a first edition like bulbasaur that i
really that's like my favorite i guess
to be like super but it's not like super
high graded or anything
minute left folks
tcg online stream a
maybe
i've always wanted to do like leon after
dark and do some stuff i thought i don't
like streaming video games so that was
weird
i do have well i think my cousin
actually has my ancient view
30 seconds folks
i'm doing everything wrong it's all
right we'll get it right together
three i don't just know like i just
don't like i don't know it's just not
anything like to talk about
i don't really over share in my real
life and so if i'm not teaching i'm kind
of like
don't know what to talk about the whole
game and so it's kind of weird i've done
a few of them but
this channel actually started as a
pokemon go stream for folks that didn't
know that
i was the first person to stream pokemon
go outside and so there's a couple
thousand followers on this channel that
uh
that are really surprised at the coding
content and it's not me catching pokemon
outside
alrighty folks come on back let's go
over this together
alrighty
please make some text 12 pixels more
text 16 pixels and last text
27 pixels so if you looked in the html
uh there's a section
that has three paragraphs with some
lorem ipsum in there all right thank you
for everyone that told me about the
lorem 10 lorem 15 like when you type out
lorem you can put a number after it
which is pretty cool like if you do
lorem
all right if you do lorem
and you do like 10
it'll give you the the 10 the 10 words
it's pretty neat
so instead of having like the full big
paragraph you can control the uh
the amount of text i did not know
leon steady learning i do
look here's my thing if you should if
you teach you should expect to learn you
should never teach without expecting to
learn the best thing i ever did to help
my learning was start to teach others
and that's why i tell you all to do that
on discord the time the day that you
have to
explain
the things that you're doing and not
just do them it just solidifies all
these connections in your brain so
if you're like leon what's something i
can do to give myself an edge help
people on discord it just the the neural
connections just they get sucked in and
you'll never forget it um so yeah
all right so we see that they have some
text sorry there's a there's a class
with some texts a class of more text and
a class of last text they're just
paragraphs with some text in them
all right
please make some text 12 pixels we'll do
some text
and we'll go ahead and give it a font
size
of 12 pixels
more text we're going to do at 16.
cool
font size
16 pixels
and then the last one is last text
and we want that at 27 pixels
27 pixels cool all right so we've gone
ahead and done that we've given them the
actual font sizes i'm just going to open
this just so that we
have it open
and we can see it as we need it
all right i'm going to open up the
inspector too just to
have it open if we need it all right
some texts more text last text um
what you're noticing here some people
have asked about this i don't think
we're going to cover it more when we get
to javascript but this is called
camel casing right there are many
different types
of casing
and this is called camel casing the
first word is lowercase and every other
word is capitalized
in classes you can't use spaces why
can't you use spaces when it comes to
classes
oh simba
because it would just be another class
like css will just recognize that as a
different class that you're applying on
that paragraph it would be two different
classes if you put a space so to denote
multi-word classes i use camelcase and
i'm going to use camelcase through
javascript through node it's kind of the
casing that i use
always unless i can't
this is also really dependent on like
what language you're using some
languages really value hyphenated when
you join a team or a company they're
gonna have like the style guide for how
they want you to name your variables and
your classes and all that fun stuff
cool
let's look at this next one
please double the font size of some text
more text in last text still using
pixels i'm just going to go ahead and
copy this real quick
and i'm going to double the size
now to double the size what do i have to
do right now
what do i have to do to double the size
right now
quick mess exactly gotta do gotta do
some quick maths 12 plus 12
16 plus 16
31.
thank you for the engagement
32.
[Laughter]
y'all got got
boosted my numbers because there's some
of y'all and i see you i i go back
and i look
at the the the amount of people that
that that comment
and there are some people that only
comment when i do something wrong
so you got got i'm on you
i need those engagement numbers up
second try
and last text
27 plus 27
54.
cool
all right let's uh let's go back to the
page and refresh just to make sure it
doubled
yep so it did double in size beautiful
alrighty
please set a base font size on hey yo
and make
some text more text in last text
those sizes but use m's instead of
pixels
so if you notice they are all inside of
a section called ao
all right
there's that ao
and so i'm going to set up base font
size on ao
and i'm going to do font size and i'm
going to do 10 pixels
all right 10 pixels
and why would i use 10 pixels on heyo
why would i do that
easy maths exactly
easy maps
alrighty
so base size font size of 10 pixels and
then we can go ahead and do
um
i'm just going to copy this and i'm
going to overwrite it
so i'm going to copy
it and i want them to be 12 pixels so
some text if i wanted to be 12 pixels
would have to be how many m's
how many m's for 12 pixels
yeah 1.2
remember because then m is going to look
at its parent's container right so it's
going to look at heyo and it's going to
base its font size off of 10. so if we
want some text to be 12 it's going to be
1.2 ms
right
cool
more text if we're going to stick to
this m's we'll make this 1.6 m's
right 1.6 m's that would give us
16 pixels
cool and then last text at 27
would be
2.7 ms
cool
me too mush me too
all right so i think that should be the
base let's go ahead and take a look it
should they should all shrink in half
looks good to me
glad you think so for sure
all right so we have all of them using
ms now
the base font size is 10 pixels great
now i want you to double
the size
of some text more text and last text but
you can only make one change
what do you change
only make one change what do you change
yeah
we make hey yo
20 pixels
so if we make heyo 20 pixels
that means every m is now
double the size right no matter what the
m's were they're now double the size if
they're getting their base from heyo
cause hey yo went from 10
now it's at 20. so let's save it
and we can see that they doubled in size
right now this right here
shows you
yms
right
right shows you why m's can be so tricky
because somewhere down in the cascade
i changed hayo from 10 to 20 right
and now all my text is double the size
right and so the idea being here is that
if you
are working with somebody else that
changed the base font size or somebody
throws a different container right
boom it could double and it can double
further down the cascade you could have
a thousand lines of css in between this
code
this code and this change and you'll be
like where the heck are stuff doubling
in size from right
all righty
please wrap last text in a new section
with the class of oh
see i write these sometimes like a week
or two ahead and i forget the stuff that
i
that i type out
and then it makes me laugh
the power rangers want to maybe laugh
like why what was i thinking
all right please wrap last text in a new
section with the class of uh oh
honestly uh oh with an h sounds more
realistic
all right
last text in a new section with the
class of oh so let's go over here
last text we're going to wrap this in a
section
with the class
of
o
and so we're going to put this
paragraph
in there
cool so now last text is inside of a
section
with the class of uh oh
all right
give it a base font size of 40 pixels so
i'm going to go to uh oh
and i'm going to give it a font size
of 40 pixels
all right so i gave uh oh
a font size of 40 pixels
let's come back and refresh uh oh
what happened
i before i thanos snap away
i changed the parent exactly
i changed the parent
the the the the
the paragraph of last text
right last text
last text
has
a
font size
of
2.7 m's
right so it's a responsive unit of
measure
it was
getting its base font size from heyo
but now that it's inside
of uh oh
and uh oh is the first
parent
it gets its base font size from uh-oh
not from heyo
right if we look
last text is going to try and get its
rem value i'm sorry it's m value
from uh oh
it's not going to get its m value from
heyo anymore heyo's apparent further up
it always looks for the first parent so
since last text is inside of uh oh it
stops it uh oh
it gets its 40 pixels
and not the 20
not the 20 from heyo
and so we've now seen two different ways
that you can get got when using m's
right
you could have someone that doubles a
font size further down in the cascade
you could have someone that introduces a
new containing section with a different
font size and so to get around all of
these troubles
you got got thank you and congrats
speedwagon glad you're here um
if you if you could
if you could get rid of all these
troubles the cascade troubles the
containing troubles by using
rams exactly so
we can fix our doubling
of last text
by converting to rems
right by converting to rems so
we can say
uh let's use html element
and let's go ahead and
set a base font size here
62.5
right
and on last text
i'm going to change it to
um font size
2.7
rem
let's see let's see what this does and
we'll come back
let's save
all right doubling one away
doubling went away
all right doubling went away
and the the doubling from heyo went away
as well
right so we wiped the slate clean now
a lot of folks are saying what's the
62.5
what is
the default font size that comes from
most browsers remember if you're not
using reset.css or normalize right there
may be a base
font size being attributed to the html
element and the base size yes is 16.
so if you do 62.5
times 16 quick maths you get 10 pixels
right so this is the exact same thing as
saying
10 pixels
because it's just taking that that
default font size now
why would i go through that trouble
right of not just saying 10 pixels leon
why are you making me do math i don't
like math why are we doing math he said
leon you said you don't need math to be
a web developer
accessibility exactly
some individuals that
maybe may have a visual impairment where
they need stuff to be bigger they
actually will use a program or even
built into certain browsers the ability
to set their base font size from 16 to
right
if you
had hard coded this to 10 pixels it
would wipe their
requested font size off the map it would
force it down to 10 pixels but let's say
their base font size right was 32
well then you do 62.5 times 32 and now
you're at 20 right and so the idea here
is that you can do
folks using accessibility devices a
favor by not hard coding this but just
taking a percentage of their requested
font size and so
typically you're going to see that be at
16 pixels for most individuals but if
they have changed it you won't actually
affect them and you can still have your
rems and eat your cake too
cool
light bulb just went off finally got it
thank you hey i'm glad that's why so i
want to take some time to practice some
trickier box model to practice some rem
ms and then we're going to practice our
media queries
we were a little late on the last break
let's be a little early on this break so
let's go ahead and take a five minute
break
right
five minute break uh if you're able
please get up move around walk around um
let your eyes focus on something that's
not your screen we're gonna come back
we're gonna do
another practice with media queries and
then we're gonna look at some flexbox
and we'll call the class all right folks
take your five minutes
and if you need any of this material
i'll always share my solutions after
class
so don't stress if you weren't able to
type along that's okay
we'll get there
discard
all right folks take your five minutes
bring the tunes back
yo
i gotta go make lasagna see you all on
the replay a
sprocket hope your lasagna turns out
good
why do you wear your headphones during
classes
so i can hear the music and the alerts
also
i have a really weird thing where
my company
used to be headphones in
don't talk to me
one headphone off you can approach me
but make it quick headphones off come
talk to me
and so the odd thing that wound up
happening because of that pattern is i
can't do like deep work without
headphones in so a lot of times i'll be
sitting with headphones in but they're
not playing anything they're not plugged
in i just need them in to be able to
like actually focus
yeah
here's soccer team man you of course
dc or marvel dc all day
not based on
if we're talking like actual comics i
love vertigo more than anything but
alrighty come on back come on back
oh i started something in the in the in
the comments
alrighty come on back let me chill the
music here
being in the live streams is way more
lit than watching them afterwards hey
glad you're here with us live
do it live
all right uh
we have one other big thing i want to do
before we get to a little bit of flexbox
and then
do our raid
and that's what i want to talk about is
the last piece of the responsiveness
puzzle which is media queries so we
talked about fluidity we talked about
elasticity maybe we got maybe hopefully
now with a little bit more practice with
the m's and rems you can kind of see how
you can get got and the ways you can get
around being got by using rems
the last bit is the content decisions
right
now the content decisions
are just how we decide
what is shown
at different screen sizes so we talked
about boston.com
when you are on mobile boston.com
doesn't need to show you
this lovely like a side or list of stuff
happening if you're on mobile you're
probably in boston on the t
you're probably commuting and you
probably just want bangers right bangers
only you want the news
you want the weather and you want sports
that's all you probably care about so
they make it really easy to see the news
whether in sports on
mobile right and they make decisions not
to show certain things that you might
have even on tablet laptop or desktop so
the last piece of this puzzle are the
content decisions you make when you are
showing or making your sites responsive
and we make those content decisions by
doing what
media queries nice
cool
so media queries
are a way of saying hey
while the screen is this size
these rules are in effect
the media queries don't give any extra
specificity they just say hey we want to
try these rules in the cascade at this
time right and so
um before you might have seen screen uh
there's print there's a bunch of them
all i like to just think of these as
like zero like you're just saying hey
between like for starting at zero but
really it's different media queries for
different types of mediums so you could
have a media query for all different
types of devices you could have media
queries just for like print like when
you're going to print something out you
could have media queries for speech like
things are going to be read with a
screen reader and so
you'll see these kind of different
values at the beginning and then right
here i'm saying max width of 600 pixels
so between like 0 and 600 pixels our h1
would be blue
right after 600 pixels the h1 would no
longer be blue
right
cool so
let's go ahead and get some media query
practice
so in our
materials for today we can close digital
color meter here for materials today if
you're new welcome we're running a 30
week software engineering bootcamp you
can always get our materials on our
discord estimation disk exclamation
point discord in chat
in the following materials channel after
you create a rules you'll find them
we're about to open the
media query practice here i'm gonna open
up the index.html and the style.css
if you're watching this on youtube hey
youtube hope you're doing well go ahead
and like comment and subscribe please
thank you thank you
alrighty
so if you scroll down to the css at the
bottom in the additional styles right
in the additional styles
future leon big brain exactly
um in the additional styles you you have
some things i would like for you to do
i would like for you to on mobile make
all the sections stack
on tablet make the sections in main
stacks if you notice there is a main
area yep
and then on laptop and then on larger
screens so uh do your best i'm gonna put
eight minutes on the timer again for
this one
and we'll go over it together eight
minutes
cool
i've at it good luck this is in the
media query practice
additional style is that below
about it
you'll notice that the layout's already
done for you don't to do the layout it's
just the
media queries
i don't think we've done this yeah we've
only done a few media queries we've
never we've never really pushed
ourselves with these
rough numbers for different screen sizes
are fine yup you can use the inspect
tool i did i did peek at that once uh to
get different screen sizes if you want
uh dragon eventually you can use rems
and m's even in media queries too
good question
i think i'm just going to show pixels
just for learning's sake but yeah you
could get the m's and rums there too
yeah well it felt like water today
what do you mean by make it all stack
meaning i want them all on top of each
other not sitting next to each other
uh boinky make sure you've uh
make sure you've unzipped the folder
you unzip to get the files out sometimes
if you just like open it it'll open but
you need to make sure it's unzipped
zero that's all right we got the ketchup
crew on discord so if you've missed some
past classes when you first learned
about media queries and you need to
catch up you can definitely do that
come on 174 that's okay we'll go over it
together
a lot of this is also like phrasing so
don't let the phrasing get get you hung
up
there's there there are some different
best practices for picking different
whiffs uh two styles of thought are one
you could actually just look up the most
common whiffs that's kind of like the
old school way of doing it
some folks like to take the size of
their layout shrink it to looks bad and
that's their media query
both ways are fine
m's and rems can pull from
the base font size that the user sets so
if a user sets a bigger base font size
and you're using ms or rems it could
actually respond to that based font size
and help with accessibility so some
folks that might have a visual
impairment might set their text to be
double the size and then your rems would
know how to respond
we'll go over them together
crisis you can actually use them for
everything honestly
cool some folks coming in done quick wow
impressive
yeah exactly if you're if you're stuck
go to mdn look at media queries look how
they do it
you have to sit here start digging start
start putting start carrying some boats
and some logs folks
fire up the mdn
means i have a
plugin called open in browser if you go
to this little icon here and you click
um search for open in browser you
install it and then you'll be able to
right click like i do
but only in the html doesn't work in the
css
up
up up up up up
man easy ban
some of these songs snap
why do people always ask if i use emmett
is that like on bingo or something
people playing bingo
people ask it all the time
all the time
is it on bingo
it took me to like halfway through
through the last cohort to realize that
people keep asking the same questions
because it's in bingo for them
is that bad no
use it if you want to
when folks first start i don't like them
to use like built-in stuff i like them
to get used to it because you're not
always going to have it and when you go
into interviews there's nothing worse
than relying on emmet and not knowing
how to do like basic tags right seen it
happen so i always like my students to
start off for the first couple weeks not
using any helpers and then yeah you can
use stuff that speeds up your process
later on
i said we're going to go over in a
second
when's the merch drop
uh we're working on like better merch
than we've had last time and so it'll be
coming soon
a lot of folks seem to want it so
we'll probably do a few raffles here and
there but
check your check your
open your your newsletter emails that'll
be the way the next merch comes from
can we get a trough of sorrows shirt
that actually pretty fun that's a good
idea
[Music]
all right 20 seconds folks
is there ever a use for m of rem it's a
preference right you some folks like ms
they like the flexibility of being able
to change based on the container size
you just have to have a team and
yourself that agrees that that's what
you want to do
box
exclamation point newsletter
alright folks come on back come on back
[Music]
show the music here
all right
come on back let's do this together all
right
on mobile please make all the sections
stack so
i'm a baddie i'm writing some bad code
i'm just going to pick a size for now
that i think most mobile phones would be
around right so i'm going to create a
media query
at media i'm going to say all and
um
let's say a max width of 500
all right
max with the 500 pixels
and if
we're below 500 pixels i know that i'm
on mobile
right i'm on mobile right
and i know i'm a mobile
and
what could i do to make everything stack
what could i do
and nice
cool it could just make them all width
of 100
all right so the cool thing here is that
when i go ahead i can target all of them
i can just say make them all percent so
if we look uh there are sections inside
of main
and there are sections inside of bottom
but bottom itself is a section so i'm
going to be a little bit more specific
here i'm going to say the sections
inside of main
and the sections inside of bottom they
are going to be width of 100 so let's
come up here
let's do main section
and then i can do the comma to select
two different things at the same time
we're going to do section main section
and then we'll do bottom
section
and i'll give them a width
of a hundred percent
cool
nice let's go ahead and
open this in the browser
so here's our normal layout
i'm going to open up the inspector just
to make it a little bit easier for me to
resize and when i have the inspector
open you're going to get this lovely um
like little note here of what the actual
screen size is
all right so if i go ahead and i start
shrinking it
you can see that we're at
600 550
and then boom we hit that 500 and we see
everything stack
and the reason why we would stack right
is because we have unlimited what
we have unlimited what
yeah we have unlimited scrolling space
right
we have unlimited scrolling space so on
mobile one of the most common like
decisions you'll make is just say let's
stack everything because we might not
have like vertical sorry horizontal
space we have pretty much unlimited
vertical space to scroll so you could
stack everything on mobile
uh a cool thing that's built into chrome
is this little icon right here you can
see it looks like a phone and a tablet
if you go ahead and click on that
it'll actually give you the dimensions
of pretty much every normal like every
popular like phone or most of the
popular ones
and the popular tablets right so
right now i have it on iphone 12 pro
and you can see the width is 390 and so
everything is stacked
right
if i go to
let's do ipad because i know ipad is 768
i believe
or i guess it's a little bit different
now you can see that when it's on ipad
and it's 820
right and it's 20 that stacking is gone
all right so i'm able to test right in
here
and see all right ipad not stacked
iphone stacked
right it's pretty neat
now something interesting i just want to
do something real quick
in my html i'm going to get rid of this
line 7. i just want to delete this real
quick i want to save
i want to come back and refresh
what did you notice what what just
happened
anybody noticed i did something very
quick here i got rid of that line i came
back and i refreshed and it's not
working anymore
it broke
right it broke
you need that line
if
you are testing on actual mobile devices
this is this is something that a couple
of folks have figured out and i just
want to show it
if you do not have this line that i gave
you to put in your template let me bring
it back
content with
device width
right
if you don't have this line and you're
testing on mobile your media queries
just won't work right
that's because there are two different
settings for your media queries there is
max with
and there is max
device
width
max device width means like mobile
phones right it means like actual
devices if you just have max with that's
going to help you with like resizing
your screen on in the browser like on
your desktop but it won't actually help
you with devices so you could
theoretically have a set of media
queries for macs with and then copy them
and have a set of media queries or max
device with
but
you don't need to have two separate sets
of media queries if you just have this
viewport
so for folks that ran into that
that's why we're we're forcing the whiff
to be the device with which means we
don't have to have like special media
queries to handle it
cool
so
normal media query we're using max with
normal media query we have our viewport
device with if we go back and refresh we
see everything that's working
okay
everything's working
why all and not screen they're just
different settings all means everything
it can mean that these media queries are
going to work on screens it's going to
work when you print stuff out it's going
to work when you're using screen readers
but sometimes you want do you ever like
go to print something and it looks
different when you print it out than
what was on the page like the ads are
gone
right like the ads are gone
the the header is gone it's just like
the the directions are being printed out
or something like oh [__] i just showed
my age there
all the og's that use map quests
if you're an og put matt just just put
in just put it put an m in chat for me
if you're an og and use map quest
right so if you know g and use mapquest
mapquest was like before like
waze
or
like the like
like google maps
we would we would search for maps online
a map quests like directions on mapquest
and then you'd print out your directions
for map quests right so the cool thing
is you can actually have a media query
that respects that and you say print
now this media query will only apply to
like when you're printing stuff so it's
pretty neat like you can have stuff that
are that works for screens you can have
stuff that works for printing you know
stuff that works for screen readers
right
and so uh it's just uh
just different things you can use there
so i'm just going to use all going
forward just to cover all of our bases
and yeah anything below 500 pixels or up
to 500 pixels is now width of 100
beautiful
on tablet please make the sections in
main
stack so i don't want
i don't want the
bottom sections to stack
i just want the
sections in main to stack
how can i do that
i definitely need another media query
right i'm going to say all and
let's do
on tablet we saw that was 820
so let's do max with
uh 8 20.
let's let's just give ourselves a little
bit of room here maybe some tablets
are slightly bigger let's do 850 pixels
beautiful
and then yeah people are people got it
main
section
uh with
now the cool thing that's going to
happen here
is that let's say we start with our
screen real big
right
right let's start with our screen real
big
right
as we make it smaller and we hit below
the uh 850 mark we're going to see that
the main sections will stack and then
once we get smaller like once we get
below 500 we'll see the main sections
and the bottom sections stack
all right
cool let's let's see what happens here
now the cool thing is we're saying and
max with right we're saying and max so
we're saying up to this so that means
we're going to have like this nice
cushion between 500 and 850 without
having to like do
min and max
let's just see what see what happens
here
i'm gonna
just do the old school way here making
our windows smaller
so we're at
860 here
and
nothing happened
oh no
why did nothing happen
let's refresh
there we go i didn't refreshed right
i saved i didn't refresh so let's go
we we hit our media query
right at the 850 boom
we can see that the main is stacking
and it's gonna stay stacked because we
said up to we said max 850 so we're good
anything below 850 this should work
and then once we get below 500
boom that other media query is in play
right
other media query is in play and now
everything stacks
beautiful
cool
so above 500
we're still in that max of 850 so main
is stacking we go past the 800
boom we see
nothing is stacking
so you don't need minimax you don't some
people prefer it it's a preference you
can do this kind of stacking you could
do it the other way with min as well
it's kind of a preference and so play
around with it try doing all max try
doing all mins try doing min and maxes
right all right we got two more here
though
on laptop please keep the normal layout
but everything should be light
green
keep the normal layout but everything
should be
um like green
so
i'm going to say anything above 850 is
our our laptop right we said 850 is our
is our tablet so i want everything above
850 right to be like green
what could i do to say everything above
850. remember i'm a baddie i'm writing
bad code this might not be exactly how
you do it in production i'm trying to
show you all the different stuff here
we could do the min with right so let's
go ahead and try it let's go and do at
media
all
and and then we're going to say
[Music]
say min with
and let's go ahead and say
um let's target
let's target everything so we'll target
main
and we'll target bottom
and we'll make them background
like green cool
let's see where we're at folks
could have done asterisks yeah look at
an asterix
all right so we're at
i want to save
let's refresh
so i'm i'm
not seeing anything i'm i'm below i
don't see any colors happening happening
nothing's really happening here we
should be seeing some light green
let's take a look at this
why am i not seeing any light green
ah some people got it
the people got it oh so happy i'm so
happy
some people got it hold on you ready
i targeted maine
and bottom
let's go look at main and bottom real
quick
i'm so happy oh this makes me so happy
let's go turn up let's look at this
all right
main
and bottom
right that's what i just put the color
on
i put the the color on main and bottom
let's look at the inspector
let's look at main
what do you i know it's hard to see but
if you look in that top left corner what
is it saying it's saying 905 and what
905 and 0.
and then let's let's look at bottom
it's saying the same thing
905 and 0. but if we look at the
sections inside we can see that those
are 300.
what happened
let's go back and look at our css what
happened
what happened
oh boy
so
since that content was floated
right since that i'm never using floats
again
since that content is floated
main
and bottom once the content floated
collapsed
right so if main and bottom are
are we going to see any color come
through
no
there's no way we'll see color because
main and bottom have collapsed right if
bane was floated and collapsed you're
not going to see anything so how do we
fix this
people are already saying it
yeah let's let's go we have clear fix up
here we have the clear fix class let's
go ahead and on main let's give it the
class of clear fix
and on bottom let's give it the class of
clear fix as well
boom
so now
now that main and section have clear fix
they shouldn't collapse anymore and if
they're not collapsing then we should
see some color
boom
let's go turn up
all right so if we go below the the 850
we get our normal stacking we go below
500 we get everything stacking
we go above
the 850
and you see light green now
if you had never learned about floats
is there any way
in
any way that you would ever figure that
out it's just no
you would never in a million years
figure out why color is not being
applied why things are collapsing and so
i've seen so many of my students wind up
having to convert legacy code
having to take something old turn it
into something new to transition to flex
and grid and there's just no way you'd
ever realize that there's no way you're
going to google that like it's just it
just it would just take forever to
figure out and so that's why i wanted to
build up floats so much that's why i
wanted you to see media queries again
and play with this because there are
just some things like this that if you
don't know how the web works what floats
if you don't know how the box model
works with a true box model and not a
flexi box model right you just won't
ever figure this crap out
all right
cool
so since those things were floating uh
the containers collapsed and that's why
we weren't seeing the color we put clear
fix which stops the container from
collapsing boom it collapsed because
they were floating
all right we have one more
we're gonna be asked this to fix
somebody's janky code exactly
all right on larger screens please keep
the normal layout but everything should
be light blue
um so we can just do another
another media query
we'll just do a bigger screen let's do
like 1024
all right so let's do at media
all and we'll do another min width
we'll say 10 24 10 24 pixels
cool
we'll do the same thing again main and
bottom
all right and we're going to do
background
and we'll say light
blue
cool let's save this
let's go back
let's refresh
there we go
so
if i could keep stretching my browser
window right if i could if i could keep
stretching my browser window
would this ever not be light blue
if i can keep making it bigger
no it will be blue until i run out of
room to keep stretching it right because
i set a min width so as long as
as long as it's above the minimum of
1024 it's gonna be light blue
if i go below
right
right if i go below
the other media query takes an effect
which had a minimum of 850.
right so if we're at 1024 above 1024
light blue light blue
we go below 1024 which was the minimum
we're now in that minimum of 850 so
we'll see like green
and we go below that we get into our
other media queries that we had as well
will media queries eventually go into
separate css file
they don't have to it's kind of
preference how many css files you have a
lot of people just use a singular css
file until they're working on a larger
project
preference between coloring the items in
the container versus the container it
doesn't it's preference yeah
why would anyone do this everyone does
it if you're building a layout that has
if you wanted to look good on mobile
devices tablets you have to make content
decisions at those screen sizes and so
you use media queries to make those
content decisions
i show the html sure
html is what you have i just added the
class clear fix
i don't understand why the class clear
fix fixed it
so we talked about clear fix in the
previous classes we also did it during
uh office hours uh so what happens i'm
just going to draw here um if you have
if we look
we have this main
right
this mane
has no height
it has no height there is no height on
this main we could come into our css and
give main a height but there's no height
the only reason
the only reason main has height
is because the sections inside of it
have height
right so we have the the three sections
right we have the three sections and
then main is around them
right main is around them
and the only reason main is so big is
because the three sections are holding
it open
right but as soon as you float these
sections right they wind up sitting next
to each other
right when i'm sitting next to each
other but the wrapper that was main
it collapses it literally just slams
shut because once you float content like
here's main my open fingers are main
here are the three sections that were
inside
i float those three sections oop main
collapses
right it just collapses
and so what
clearfix does if we actually look at the
clear fix class
let's go up to it
it says hey
put a dot
an invisible dot right because we say
visibility hidden put an invisible dot
after the content
right
put an invisible dot after the content
right and so what it's actually doing is
we're putting a little invisible dot
right here
so even though
right even though
these three sections are floating and
the main should collapse it's not going
to collapse because main
is trying to wrap around that dot now it
doesn't care if the stuff is floating or
not floating it's just trying to wrap
around that dot and so when you add the
clear fix it wraps around the dot and it
doesn't matter what you do inside you
could float those those sections you can
do whatever you want to them it's not
going to collapse because they're
floated
because it's wrapping around the dot
so when you add the clear fix it keeps
the main open
it keeps bottom open when we add clear
fix here and that's why we can see color
if we got rid of this dot like if this
dot went away well then this would
collapse and you'd wind up with just a
flat line because it doesn't have any
height
why display block if it's invisible
anyway
because it's still taking up space so
there's two different ways to like make
stuff invisible right
display none
actually removes it from the page it's
like no longer on the page anymore
that's why you can't see it it's like
literally gone you can't see it when
it's display it's gone when you say
display none you remove something from
the page but when you do visibility
hidden
it's still there you just can't see it
right
yeah
so slight differences there
cool
all righty
if you have more questions about media
queries and things like that come to
office hours we're happy to kind of walk
through more of them there
all right let's keep pushing folks we
only got a little bit of time left and i
want to get to some flexbox goodness
all right
so we talked about adding this viewport
without it you're going to need two
different kinds of media queries
the min device width and max device
width versus just min and max width
right so make sure you always have this
meta viewport in the head of your
document we added that to our template
before
all right time for some layouts we're
going to look at some layouts that we've
done before
let's talk about floats
psych
not going to talk about floats
uh we're going to talk about
[Music]
all right so let's talk about some
flexbox now
i've asked you to read the css tricks
flexbox tutorial
i have asked you to play flexbox froggie
in the following materials today i've
given you some extra work if you want to
learn more about flexbox it includes
flexbox zombies it includes uh the goat
traversing media's video on 20 minute
flexbox it includes a free code camp
walk through a flexbox
there's a lot of vocabulary that comes
with flexbox that you have to learn and
by playing those games
it's going to be
way more impactful than me like putting
them up on the screen and then us
walking through them so
i'm going to show
i'm gonna show some quick examples of
the layouts we've already done in
flexbox and then i want you to do those
games the games are just really helpful
um and for me like i always still had to
look up the flexbox stuff like i always
forgot justify what or align what like i
just could never remember the vocabulary
until i added them to my anki until i
played those games so play flexbox
froggy play
um flexbox zombies right that will help
those things actually stick in your
brain more than us kind of sitting here
and doing them together so i'm going to
assume that you've already done some of
that work the flexbox froggy you've read
that tutorial and so we don't have to
sit here and work through the vocabulary
together you should already have it i
just want to show you some some code
all right warning
actually let me bring tina up here
all right warning i'm a baddie i write
bad code uh none of this would make it
into production i just wanted to show
you as an exercise into how we could use
flex uh instead of the the the
floatiness that we've been going through
all right
cool let's write some bad code with
flexbox uh the first thing i want to do
is techcrunch
right so let's if you want to you don't
have to follow along you don't have to
like type along i think you should just
pay attention ask questions um so like
don't rush to like type this out i will
always share my solutions after class so
the layout that we have with techcrunch
is just this lovely like three
column light that was so bad i couldn't
even draw a straight line
[Laughter]
three column layout right
and so we're going to go ahead and do
that with
flexbox instead of floats that we've
done before so
in the starter materials for tonight i
have
the layout one folder
and this is
one folder
is simply
the layout one folder is simply the code
we did last time with floats
uh so we have our nav with the ul lis in
it we have a main and we have an aside
so all of our core content is in the nav
it's in the main and it's in the side
right so it's those those three key
areas
and before we look at our css we did
some some floating
we did some whiffs and
and that kind of how we got those three
main areas to sit next to each other
so with
flexbox
if i want containers or if i just want
everything to sit next to each other
what could i use
i'm using flexbox and i want stuff to
sit next to each other what do i want to
use
display flex exactly so in all the
containers
i want to put display flex and so if i
look if i want nav
main
and the aside to sit next to each other
uh what this container
that i could like go ahead and give it a
container but it already has a container
which is the body right so
let's go ahead and i'm just going to
comment out all this css
so all that css has commented out and
i'm just going to be a baddie and write
bad code and it's on the body do
display
flex
save it
let's go ahead and open it
that's pretty damn good all right next
is there right we got the core layout
there's nothing else we have to do right
they're all sitting next to each other
they're taking up the space based on the
content that's inside um we're done
next
[Laughter]
all right let's look at this other one
here let's look at layout two
bankers only exactly layout two
so layout two is
khan academy
right so khan academy
has this lovely like nav
and then it has
like these two areas that are sitting
next to each other
right like these two areas that are
sitting next to each other
cool
so that's kind of the core layout if we
look at the html
we have the header with the nav inside
of it that we're gonna have to kind of
get those sitting next to each other
right and then the main
right main has two things inside of it
has like this section here
and this section here that i want to sit
next to each other
all right so i got two areas i need to
sit next to each other and so
whenever i want something to sit next to
each other
i have to just use that display flex so
i'm going to start my css
i'm going to comment out all the css
that we had here for the layout
boom
that's commented out and so i'm going to
start fresh in my additional styles here
and i know i want to start off with like
the nav sitting next to each other
so let's just go ahead and do nav
and do display
flex
right i want the nav to sit next to each
other so let's let's just see
where we're at
all right so the nav is actually sitting
next to each other
right it is sitting next to each other i
i also want the actual lis
to sit next to each other right like i
like i want these li sitting next to
each other i don't want them stacking
so what i'm going to do is i'm going to
come back to my css
and i'm going to add the ul to the
things that are also getting display
flex
cool
so let's go and see what that looks like
now
great so now each item in the nav is
sitting next to each other
each item in the ul is sitting next to
each other uh just with display flex
don't hate me
please delete me
[Music]
cool
now
there's something there's something that
we're missing right like
there's something that we're missing
if we look at the actual khan academy
like there's space around each of these
elements right
and so
if we want to put space around things
well we
we have the ability to put space around
things if we want and so we could i'm
just going to do it on a separate line
just because i know i'm going to add
some other stuff to where display flex
is
i could technically do this together but
just to make a little bit easier to see
so we have this thing called justify
content
and so with justified content i could
just say space
around space between someone's gonna say
space around
and let's save this
and let's go back
and let's refresh
all right
we're getting there
so
the the things have space around them
uh the one thing that we're running into
is that the ul
doesn't have enough room
right it's it's trying to put space
between each of the lis just doesn't
have enough room so what i want to do is
i want to make sure this ul has more
room when i do the space around
and so
if you want to give something like you
would normally normally would solve this
by just like doing like a width
right we just do it with so we just go
on the ul and we'd give it like a width
so that the stuff inside of it had more
room for space around
right so there's lots of ways to do it
but since you're already used to
percentages let me show you flex
basis
and so flex spaces is basically just
like percentages when it comes to flex
i know i'm kind of cheating a little bit
there but
save it and let's go back and take a
look
all right
nice
so now the ul has more room
so when i do the percent around right
when i do the percent around it has more
room and we're pretty much done with the
the header
like the nav i think is pretty damn
close we got space around everything
we didn't have to do any quick maths we
just
flexed the container of the nav in the
ul we put space around them with the
justified content and we gave the ul a
little bit of breathing room so that the
stuff wouldn't like
overlap
cool
all right last thing we have to worry
about is
the
sections inside of main
right the sections inside of main
so we want the sections inside of main
to be display
flex
right you want them to be display flex
so let's go ahead and try that
because we want we want this we want
this section to sit next to this section
so instead of having to do like
percentages and float we'll just add
main to our list up here
and let's see where we're at
all right great
so now
now the uh
this like section is sitting next to the
section with the image uh the image is
way too big so i'm just going to go
ahead and give the image a width like
i'm not going to worry about like flex
or anything i'm going to say just for
now
with
i don't know 30 percent
cool
all right
dope so we have them sitting next to
each other um
but
there's something
weird happening
um what we're noticing is that
the
the the this this one right here
is it's it's justified to the left
right it's justified to the left and so
i kind of want it like in the center
and so if i want it or like like what
space on either side of the image
what should it be
well i'm just gonna give it space around
right like
if there's only one thing
and i have space around it it's gonna
it's gonna be centered right so instead
of having to do like other justified
contents let's just go ahead and
you know
i don't know
add main section
all right
because now that'll just give space
around it right if we look
main
section right space around we'll be in a
good spot
so
let's
refresh
did i save
[Music]
oh i didn't i didn't i didn't flex it i
didn't flex it right so the the main
section can't get it because i haven't
flexed it so i'm gonna do
main
section so it has display flex
right and now it should be able to take
the space around
let's save it
beautiful
it has space around it
right has space around it
oh [__] look at this piece over here
um so what i actually want to have
happen
is i only want this one to have space
around
right
i don't want this one so
first child just the first just the
first section inside of main should be
flexed
damn right all right
rap
[Laughter]
let's go ahead let's let's step back
through that one and that was a little
tricky there let's take it back let's
look at it so we just kind of been
adding things to be flexed right when
things are flexed they're happy to sit
like next to each other they'll take up
the space that they need
i wanted some space around my content
and so i just keep adding stuff to be
flexed so it'll sit next to each other
and i keep adding stuff to justify
content space around so there's space
around it
that's all i'm doing
right
and so the problem that i ran into right
there was wait a minute if i'm putting
space around each thing
inside of main section like if every
single thing inside a main section is
spaced around that works great for the
first section because i want space
around the image
right i want space around the image that
makes sense
but i don't want space around the h1 the
paragraph the anchor tags
right if i put space around all of these
we wind up where like it was they were
all sitting next to each other so what i
did
is i just
didn't
flex this one
i just flexed the first one and so
that's what that pseudo-selector was
that pseudoselector uh first child right
that suits like their first child
all that was was saying hey just flex
this bad boy don't flex this one
so yeah if we look at our old css we had
like
whiffs and margins and floatings and
percentages
and all this other crap
and now all we're saying is
flex it
put space around it
and if i need a little bit more space
give it a little bit more space
see leprechauns say yeah
[Music]
still very fluid up until a point right
still very fluid so the responsiveness
is still there even though you're using
flex
the response and this is still there
let's do the last one and then we'll end
not early though
all right let's do uh bbc
so we looked at bbc
we had like a nice
header
we had like these two big boxes sitting
next to each other
these like four boxes sitting next to
each other and then the last one was
pretty easy just sitting next to each
other
right so let's go ahead and open up the
and of course i'll share all these with
you so you can come back and watch this
again you can play around the flex
all right
then look at layout three
tss
all right
here's the original
pretty pretty solid layout
nothing too wild there i think these
still need to be floating next to each
other but this is what it was which is
regular old css
uh and if we look at our regular old css
oh crap i have it in here
ignore this oh actually you know we're
out of time so i'm going to
let me let me comment this out
i forgot that i gave you the answer
all right gonna comment this out we're
gonna look at the old css first
so here's the old css
all right
uh we have our header with like heights
and then we're floating we're giving
whiffs we're giving other widths we're
giving expansions we're we're floating
other widths
percentages percentages percentages uh
so much work so much math
and i'm instead of walking throughout
the sun i'll just undo it we'll do more
practice on sunday with flexbox so if
you're like this flexbox stuff is cool
come back on sunday and we'll do more
together
all right and here's the solution
um
so what i did here is i have my nav ul
main just like we did before
i am display flexing them right just
flexing the the nav ul the main because
i want everything in the nav to sit next
to each other i want everything in the
ul sitting next to each other and then i
want everything that's in my main
section sitting next to each other as
well
right so
and i gave them space around we get rid
of this stuff just just to see it
right
so this is the nav navuel main right uh
display flex and with space around
let's go ahead and refresh
there we go
this is our nav with just flex and space
around
same problem as last time though it's
pretty good we have space going around
each thing but i want more room for this
ul to sit next to each other right
more room to sit next to each other so i
want that to have more width so that's
where that flex basis comes in again
frijole right it comes in there because
i want that to have more room when
you're trying to cut like when the flex
is trying to do its calculation i want
that to have more room i can come down
here
and say hey you will
i want you to have flex basis of 60.
right that's just going to give it more
room
more room
we do that
there you go oh my gosh
so good
it's so good
right
so good
that's it that's that's the header
right and it works because everything is
flexed
we're putting space around
and we gave the ul a little bit of
breathing room
i'm about to throw hounds
all right
cool
um
let's look at the stuff below it
uh so the main is looking good too
right maine is like looking good um
except the bbc is being is being
considered in the flex right it's saying
all right it's saying i have three
things here i have bbc
i have this section and i have this
section
right so what i could do is like figure
out how to like
not have this bbc be included in the
flex or
i can just be a baddie and write bad
code and just yoink
take the h2
throw it in the section and i'll worry
about it later so now when i go back
there we go we got our two 50 50.
right the flex is sitting both of them
next to each other
right
and what else we got to do there
um
let's see
what don't i like about this
i think that there might be a little bit
too much room
and so
if we look that like main section
um
i i don't know why i actually did this
uh let's see let's try it out
let's do this
oh there you go i just wanted to have a
little bit more room
yeah
a little bit more room i i i made it a
little bit smaller right a little bit
smaller so that i could i could have
some room around right because if we
look
um main is flexed right main is flexed
and i have space around so to have just
to have just like the right amount like
if we look at the
the bbc logo
there's just a little bit of space on
the left a little bit of gutter in
between
and a little bit of space on the right
so instead of flex like taking up the
whole thing i just i just wanted i just
wanted to be able to control that little
bit without having to like figure out
how to manage the gutter or anything
right i just want it to have just a
little bit of room and so if i know i
knew if i made
both of these
like 48
right that gives me two percent
right
give me two percent for all the like the
gutter on the left the right and in the
middle and so that's all i did i said
all right make the sections inside of
main 48
so that when the space goes around it
it's just that little bit of gutter
right that's it
and then the last thing
was
i have these like
four sections that should be here
and so right now they're not sitting
next to each other so if i want them to
sit next to each other i gotta put
display flex on them and so that's what
i did here
so i said all right look in main
look at the section that has a sibling
that is a section right so if we look
main
section
sibling section
is the section with all four of those
sections sitting inside of it right we
saw this before and the last time we did
the layout
instead of putting a class on it or
something like that i'm just saying hey
target this section what the one with
all four of those sections inside of it
so main section plus section is that
section
display flex
flex wrap
and flex basis of 50
and so all i'm saying here
is right all i'm saying here is i want
50 50 for each of them
and then i want them to be able to go to
the next line
all right i want them to be able to go
to the next line right so without flex
wrap they wouldn't go to the next line
right so once you put flex wrap on it
it's like all right 50 50 boop bring
them down to the next line
right you could do
there are some other ways to do this as
well but since we're already thinking in
percentages it just makes sense to stay
there until you get to
uh play flexbox zombies and stuff like
that that goes in more detail right and
so those those sections are going to sit
next to the other because of the flex
they're going to not they're going to
wrap to the next line and then they'll
be 50 percent
if you look
there you go now we have them all
sitting next to each other no need to to
worry about floating other percentages
or anything like that got them next to
each other
then we had like this last one here
right this last section down there
and um
this section has
one two
three sections inside of it
i don't want the h2 to be part of it so
instead of trying to figure out a hack
for that now i'm gonna plop it in this
first section
and then
instead of having to figure out the
nested selector i'm just gonna give this
a class
of container
a lot of times i'll have like a
container class that just has like
display flex on it save that
come back
boom
all three of them are sitting next to
each other now
and we got pretty much the core layout
done
all right so if we come back and look at
it
the real
ryman reason
is
flex it and things will just naturally
sit next to each other they'll know how
much room to take up you don't need to
know the percentages you don't need to
do anything you want a little bit of
room around it you put space around like
we did up here if you want some space in
between you just space in between a lot
of different just kind of words right
and so it can really speed up your
layout process hopefully you can see
that like what we did these three
layouts in like under 20 minutes just
with some quick quick terminology
and so please
i know it's your first time really kind
of diving into it we're not spending a
lot of time on it right now but do
flexbox zombie do flexbox froggy watch
the videos i asked you to watch and
it'll click it's just a lot of
terminology to work through add them to
your anki deck and once you add them to
yankee deck you'll be you'll be good
we're going to learn some javascript
all right we're going to learn some
javascript once we have javascript we'll
come back right we'll come back
we'll come back once we know our
javascript right to build
bigger layouts where we can click on
stuff and dropdowns open and all that
fun stuff so we'll come back we'll spend
more time with flex we'll spend more
time with grid but for now that's good
uh
if you want a little bit more practice
with flex you want to do a little bit
more layouts together come to office
hours on sunday we'll do a few with flex
just to kind of get our our juices going
uh i would love to
end with a raid spread some love and
positivity like we normally do
and then uh let's let's get let's get
pumped
let's get pumped for thursday folks
pumped for thursday thursday we
adventure into javascript and so let's
go ahead let's end with a raid
we're going to go over to pumpkin days
they do some some game development we
haven't stopped by them yet so i'm gonna
go over the pumpkin days stick around
for the raid give them a follow even
give them a follow
and get those extra channel points
you're gonna want them i've got some
good stuff coming up for channel points
you want it
alrighty
let's go ahead spread some love some
positivity give them a follows thank you
for a wonderful class i'm probably going
to go live like either later tonight or
tomorrow just to test some stuff so you
want to come out and hang out while i'm
testing things i'll see you then
otherwise have a wonderful rest of your
night let's raid starting in
sorry
eight seconds
everybody thank you so much hope you had
some fun tonight hope you learned a few
things i did too
i'll see you over there let's read
you